# Changes

- **Updated for Minecraft 1.18.2**
  - 1.17.1 has been marked as DEPRECATED for this release, it is strongly recommended to upgrade.
  - !! Please see the advisory below regarding world migration from 1.17.x -> 1.18.x !!
- Implemented the Slider Dungeon, with more dungeons to come soon!
  - Chest Mimics, as a result, have also been implemented!
- `/condition assign` and `/condition query` now displays appropriate player-based logging
- Swets no longer care about light level; now are more dependent on altitude (y-height)
  - Leashing mechanics for Swets have also been improved to be more responsive
- Aerwhales and Whirlwinds have been implemented, and will now naturally frequent the world
- The cloudstaff has now been implemented into the game, and is now usable
- Oh the lore! The Lore Book has also now been implemented (Now where did I leave my trivia card?)


# Fixes

- Adjusted Spawn Rates for Cockatrices to naturally spawn within the world
- Adjusted spawn rates for Blue Swets; Other types of swets are also now able to naturally spawn
- Performance optimisations for Mount Systems, Bloodstone Rendering, and Cloud Rendering

# Advisory: 1.17 -> 1.18 World Migration

At this time, migrating worlds will work fine all elements of the mod **except** for dimension information.

Due to unforeseen issues currently beyond our control, the game is currently unable to migrate the Aether Dimension from the 1.17 format to 1.18s.

Anyone choosing to migrate worlds is **strongly encouraged** to make a backup and additionally opt to regenerate the dimension due to the worldgen changes made,
as even if this component is stabilized, **there is no chunk blending in place for world transitions**.

(The Aether Dimension can be regenerated by removing the folder `<MC_SAVES_FOLDER>/<WORLD_NAME>/dimensions/the_aether`)

Efforts are currently ongoing to determine the feasibility of getting this component working, to ensure a smoother migration to 1.18.x.
Further news regarding this effort can be found on our [discord server](https://discord.com/invite/wmMa47n).

# Advisory: Snapshot Support

For this release, we are allowing support for the 22w05a Build of Minecraft, which is classed as a snapshot for 1.18.2

Understandably, snapshot builds may provide more instability, and in the case here, support for them may be limited/non-existent.

Any issues reported under these snapshot builds may not receive fixes, until the related versions release, so please be mindful of this while experimenting.
